MCLP 모델을 이용한 은평구, 마포구, 서대문구 노인 복지 시설 재배치 지도 제작 / Finding Map of the Redistributed Welfare Facilities for the Elderly in Eunpyeong-gu, Mapo-gu, and Seodaemun-gu using MCLP Model / 김서진 · 김승준 · 이준영A · 조자룡 / As Korea enters an aging society, discussions are taking place on the accessibility of medical welfare facilities needed by the elderly. However, most of the studies did not deal with the specificity of one region. Therefore, this study aims to stabilize the accessibility by relocating medical welfare facilities in the region, especially targeting Eunpyeong-gu, Mapogu, Seodaemun-gu. To this end, the difference in facility accessibility between densely populated areas and sparse areas was minimized by investigating the number of people eligible for those facilities in each region and calculating the population and accessibility figures for public transportation by the region using MCLP model. As a result, a map of redistributed facilities was drawn through a model that optimized the difference in access to medical welfare facilities by region. This study proposed a method of mitigating the difference in accessibility of facilities between regions through the applied MCLP model, which suggests that it can be used in future studies targeting other regions. / MCLP, Accessibility, Medical welfare facility, Rearrangement / AC3486



Python 기반 P-Median 알고리즘을 활용한 은평구 공공자전거 대여소 입지 선정: 도시 공학적 데이터 분석 및 교통 최적화 접근 / Optimal Location Selection for Public Bike Rental Stations in Eunpyeong-gu Using Python-Based P-Median algorithm: Urban Engineering Data Analysis and Transport Optimization Approach / 문창민 · 이준규 · 정은준 · 홍찬교 / This study proposes a methodology to enhance the efficiency of public bicycle stations in Eunpyeong-gu by applying the P-Median algorithm to optimize their placement. Data were collected through a survey of Eunpyeong-gu residents and analyzed to assess the correlation between public bicycle stations and surrounding facilities (e.g., schools, apartments, supermarkets). Using Python-based data analysis, distances and weights between facilities and stations were calculated to design an optimal layout that minimizes costs and maximizes accessibility. The findings address the imbalance in station distribution within Eunpyeong-gu, identifying new locations that could improve bicycle usage. This research contributes to advancing sustainable transportation and urban infrastructure. / Public Bicycle System, P-Median Algorithm, Urban Mobility, Bike Station Optimization, Eunpyeong-gu / AC0336



과산화수소 함유 알지네이트 비드를 활용한 불광천의 녹조 현상 해결 방안 / Solution of Alginate Beads with Hydrogen Peroxide for Algae Bloom in Bulgwangcheon Stream / 황다인 · 이서윤 / Algal blooms and cyanobacteria are major causes of water pollution, necessitating the development of cost effective and eco friendly technologies to address this issue. This study aimed to identify the optimal concentration and conditions for hydrogen peroxide-infused alginate beads, confirming that the highest removal efficiency was achieved with a 0.30% hydrogen peroxide concentration, 250 beads, and 30mL of algal solution. Based on these findings, an Excel model was developed to calculate the optimized hydrogen peroxide and bead usage under varying COD and pH conditions, providing a practical solution for river management including Bulgwang stream. / Algal removal, Alginate beads, Hydrogen peroxide, Water purification technology / AC4341



다목적 야외경기장의 소음 문제 해결을 위한 최적의 천장 구조 탐구: 서울월드컵 경기장을 중심으로 / Finding the optimal ceiling structure to address noise issues in multipurpose outdoor stadiums: Focusing on Seoul World Cup Stadium / 김윤서 · 김준명 · 연승모 · 차준오 / Multi-purpose outdoor stadiums, such as the Seoul World Cup Stadium, lack adequate noise reduction measures, causing inconvenience to nearby residents. This study aims to design an optimal stadium roof structure that effectively reduces noise by considering sound wave interference, thereby improving residents' quality of life. The study analyzed constructive interference points of sound waves from the stadium and proposed several roof designs to absorb noise. With models of the stadium and roofs, noise reduction efficiency was tested by measuring decibel levels. The results of the experiment showed that blocking more reinforcement interference points or installing sound-absorbing materials reduced the average decibel level. This research provides a practical and economical solution for noise issues in multipurpose outdoor stadiums. / Multi-purpose outdoor stadiums, decibel, wave interference, absorption material / AC3901



도시정책 성능 검증을 위한 디지털 트윈 시뮬레이션 - YOLO와 Unreal Engine을 중심으로 / An Digital twin simulation for verifying the performance of urban policies -focusing on YOLOv5 and Unreal Engine 5 / 강민주 · 문영서 · 윤지민 / It is required to confirm the condition of a certain city and population before the government establishes urban policy. Mapo-gu is one of the states that has a high violence crime rate in Seoul, but the lowest crime detection rate compared to other 2 states(Eunpyeonggu, Youngdeungpo-gu) in Western Seoul. The research team at Hana Academy purposes to set certain hypothetical condition of Gyeongui-line Forest Park, Mapo-gu in Unreal engine 5 and simulate the process from the incidence of crime to getting arrested criminal using YOLOv5, which is a computer vision model that uses object detection to identify object images. The research team at Hana Academy developed a violence response protocol that utilizes AIenhanced CCTV powered by YOLOv5 to detect violent incidents in a test-bed environment, deploying a Lifeguard to intervene before police arrival. The team testified whether this process and setting work as an efficient test-bed for the future simulation in Unreal engine 5. The team focused more on the condition in Unreal Engine, which was designed for real-time communication using TCP socket in YOLO v5 based on a custom dataset, which simulated the similar condition to the real Gyeongui-line Forest Park. The team concluded that while Unreal Engine 5 was effective for the previous test-bed, it requires further advancements to support realistic urban simulations and the incorporation of additional variants for broader applications. / Digital Twin, Simulation, YOLO, AI-enhanced CCTV, Crime policy / AC7709



북한산 자생 식물 층층나무를 이용한 친환경 마스크팩 제작 / Creating eco-friendly mask packs incorporating chemical properties of plants from Bukhansan Mountain / 김지훈 · 진신아리 · 진윤· 차성호 / Bukhansan Mountain is the representative mountain of Eunpyeong-gu, but public awareness of its ecological characteristics is low. In modern society, many people are interested in skin diseases and their solutions, and there is a demand for mask packs that alleviate them. This study aims to promote the native resources of Bukhansan Mountain and prevent skin diseases by producing a mask pack using the extract of C. controversa, a plant native to Bukhansan Mountain and verifying its antioxidant and antibacterial effects. The study manufactured a mask pack base, added extracts, verified the antioxidant ability through DPPH, verified the antibacterial effect through an experiment using E. coli, evaluated the efficacy of C. controversa, and produced a mask pack. As a result of the experiment, the C. controversa extract was proven to have superior antioxidant ability compared to the two control groups and showed an antibacterial effect against E. coli. Through this study, we found that C. controversa extract, a native plant from Bukhansan Mountain, has excellent antioxidant and antibacterial effects, and presented a method to prevent skin diseases by producing a mask pack using it. In addition to C. controversa, it is expected that making products related to skin diseases using native plants from Bukhansan will lead to disease prevention and promotion of products of Bukhansan Mountain. / Bukhansan Mountain, Mask packs, E.coli, DPPH, Cornus controversa / AC2514



북한산 최적의 등산로에 대한 고찰 - 경사도, 멧돼지 분포, 침수 위험도를 중심으로 / An Analysis of the Optimal Hiking Trails on Mount Bukhan - Focusing on Slope, Wild Boar Distribution, and Flood Risk  / 권준민 · 김강언 · 전예성 · 차민서 / Bukhan Mountain is the only mountain in Seoul that can be hiked for a long time, and because of its size and scenery, it is a loved mountain for many hikers in Seoul. Bukhan Mountain is located in Eunpyeong-gu, so it acts as a factor to revitalize Eunpyeong-gu's economy and society. However, due to the rough terrain and slopes of Bukhansan Mountain, there is a need for a somewhat safe and efficient hiking trail. Therefore, the purpose of this study is to find the best hiking trail for safety and efficiency that exceeds existing hiking trails. Through analyzing the 13 hiking trails on Bukhansan Mountain, we can directly measure and guide the degree of less effort and difficulty with the course to help visitors. It would be even better if you found a path that is more efficient than these. / Bukhan Mountain, Dijkstra algorithm, 3D modeling, Maxent model, DEM / AC8979



서울월드컵경기장의 유휴 부지 활용 방안에 대한 연구 / A Study on the Utilization of Idle Land at Seoul World Cup Stadium / 구본주, 지건희, 황주상 / The Seoul World Cup Stadium is one of the largest stadiums in South Korea, but it has vast unused land areas, sparking ongoing discussions about their utilization. However, these discussions have not led to tangible results, failing to contribute to the development of the local community. In this context, this study aims to analyze the Seoul World Cup Stadium and propose measures to utilize the unused land effectively. To carry out the study, a site visit was conducted to examine and calculate the area, followed by an analysis applying central place theory to identify the stadium's potential. Additionally, the analysis results were synthesized to devise solutions. The study revealed that the Seoul World Cup Stadium is not fully utilizing the potential derived from its surrounding catchment area. It was found to attract far fewer visitors compared to international examples like Tottenham Hotspur Stadium. The proposed solutions are expected to have a positive impact by revitalizing the local economy and strengthening the community, leading to favorable outcomes. / Central Place Theory, Seoul World Cup Stadium, Idle land / AC2241



신경 건축학의 공간 적용 방식에 대한 연구 및 어린이를 위한 서대문자연사 박물관의 발전 방향 제시 / Studies on application methods of neuroarchitecture and proposing a direction for the development of Seodaemun Museum of Natural History / 박승규 · 오예령 · 정은솔 / The purpose of this study is to propose a development strategy for the Seodaemun Museum of Natural History by designing a space informed by neuroarchitecture principles and children’s psychology. This research involved an in-depth examination of neuroarchitectural theories, interpreting images of various architectural spaces through the lens of these theories. Using the ‘Room Planner’ application, a spatial design was created to embody neuroarchitectural concepts. Subsequently, surveys were conducted to assess the psychological impact of the designed space on users, allowing for an evaluation of the theory’s effectiveness in practice. Based on these findings, the current spatial environment of the Seodaemun Museum of Natural History was analyzed through neuroarchitectural principles, with specific suggestions made for enhancing the space to better accommodate children’s psychological needs. / Neuroarchitecture, Psychology, Spatial environment, Children psychology, Space modeling / AC6128



아동·청소년의 자기효능감 향상을 위한 긍정심리 프로그램 활성화 방안 : 은평구 청소년 상담 복지 센터를 중심으로 / Strategies to Promote Positive Psychology Programs for Enhancing SelfEfficacy of Children and Adolescents : Focusing on the Eunpyeong Youth Welfare Center / 최윤영 · 이시우 · 정규은 / Happiness of Korean adolescents is known to be at a very low level. This arises from students being over experiencing high stress levels, resulting in negative mental states. To solve this problem, we tend to propose a new type of program using the theory of positive psychology. To achieve the goal of the study, we used the method of field research, interview, survey and literature review. Through these steps, we could learn how activated the welfare center was, how programs were practiced, and how to actually develop our brand-new program. As a result, we suggest the positive psychology program 'Philia' inspired by the concept of family in Coram deo; Christianity club of Hana Academy Seoul. We expect that this study and program will help students in aspects of self-efficacy and community by bonding the school and youth welfare center of the area. / Positive psychology, Adolescents, Self-efficacy, Social contribution / AC2331



연서시장 미관 개선을 위한 쓰레기 감지 모듈의 제작 효율적 배치 방법 탐구 / Exploration of the Development of a Trash Detection Module and Its Efficient Placement for Enhancing the Aesthetic Appeal of Yeonse Market / 유승주 · 문정안 · 송어진 / Yeonse Market, a traditional market in Eunpyeong-gu, Seoul, is known for its unique charm and long-standing eateries. However, the increase in visitors has led to severe illegal dumping issues. This project aims to develop a YOLO algorithm-based trash detection module and explore its optimal placement using computational geometry. As the first attempt to apply YOLO to a mobile detection module, this study provides a basis for evaluating AI-driven solutions and offers practical insights for improving urban cleanliness and aesthetics. / YOLO algorithm, computational geometry, Yeonse Market, urban cleanliness / AC0226



은평 한옥마을 관광객의 선호도 및 이동패턴을 분석하여 최적의 관광지 경로를 도출 / Analyzing Tourist Preferences and Movement Patterns in Eunpyeong Hanok Village to Derive Optimal Tourist Routes / 임수린 · 김주원 · 이준영 / Hana High School is located near Bukhansan Mountain and Eunpyeong Hanok Village, areas often congested with tourists. High population density in these areas can cause mobility issues and safety concerns. This study aims to analyze the preferences and movement patterns of tourists in Eunpyeong Hanok Village using mathematical and computational approaches to derive optimized tourist routes. By alleviating congestion and distributing visitors evenly, the project enhances tourist satisfaction, strengthens safety, and boosts local economic activity. The results are expected to provide valuable data for sustainable tourism management in the Eunpyeong district and beyond. / Tourist Route Optimization, Movement Pattern Analysis, Sustainable Tourism, Local Economy Boost, Congestion Management / AC1761



은평구 교통 최적화와 경제적 영향 분석 : 교통 공학과 버스노선을 중심으로 / Optimization of Transportation and Economic Impact Analysis in Eunpyeong : Focusing on Traffic Engineering and Bus Routes / 이향기 · 김민주 · 김보영 · 박준혁 / This study was conducted to address the severe traffic congestion around Yeonseo Market in Eunpyeong and the congestion caused by hikers visiting Bukhansan during the hiking season. The causes and conditions of traffic congestion at Yeonseo Market were analyzed using traffic flow theory, and a plan was proposed to efficiently manage the movement of floating populations through bus route optimization. Additionally, the eco nomic benefits of this plan were predicted based on theories such as comparative advantage, new economic geography, and dynamic general equilibrium modeling. While road expansion could resolve the congestion, it is not feasible in practice. Instead, optimizing bus routes to reduce traffic volume was implemented, confirming its positive impact on alleviating congestion and revitalizing the local economy. / Traffic congestion, Traffic flow theory, Bus route optimization, Comparative a dvantage, New economic geography, Dynamic general equilibrium modeling / AC4179



은평구 신설 공원 설계 및 배치 방안에 관한 연구 / Research on Design and Layout Plan for Newly Established Parks in Eunpyeong-gu / 김여은 · 김진홍 · 박장형 · 박주현 / The research identifies gaps in park accessibility and availability in Eunpyeong-gu, despite its dense population. Using the Mercator projection and a custom Park Efficiency Index (PEI), the study evaluates the effectiveness of existing parks and proposes an optimal design for new parks. The findings suggest that factors like accessibility, green area, and multifunctionality are key to efficient park planning. Limitations of the study include simplified distance evaluations and incomplete metrics for PEI. Nevertheless, it highlights the need for thoughtful park distribution and functionality enhancements. / Eunpyeong District Urban Park Design, Efficient Park Allocation, Park Efficiency Index (PEI), Mercator Projection Method, KD Tree Algorithm / AC2454



은평구 재개발 사업 개선책 마련: 서울 혁신파크 부지 재개발을 중심으로 / Redevelopment Project in Eunpyeong-gu : Focusing on Seoul Innovation Park Site Redevelopment / 심세아 · 홍주현 / The redevelopment plan for Seoul Innovation Park has sparked significant controversy among the residents of Eunpyeong District. Eunpyeong is an economically disadvantaged area, and a large mixed-use cultural shopping mall, residential, and commercial complexes are set to be built on the Seoul Innovation Park site. Residents are concerned about the negative impact on existing businesses and the lack of consideration for their opinions. This study aims to propose a prompt solution to the redevelopment controversy through the issue of local autonomy between Seoul and Eunpyeong, using negotiation theory. To resolve the controversy, negotiation between Seoul and Eunpyeong based on the Fisher-Ury theory and the establishment of relevant ordinances is necessary, with a focus on building mutual trust and fully incorporating the residents' opinions. Specific solutions include: first, Seoul should respect Eunpyeong's autonomy and adjust the development plans through consultations with residents; second, public hearings or surveys should be conducted to actively gather the opinions of residents, ensuring that the development direction reflects the needs of the local business community and residents; and third, the integration of Seoul Innovation Park's functions with commercial facilities should propose a complex, sustainable development model that minimizes negative impacts from the redevelopment. These measures, based on negotiation theory, will help build cooperative relationships and address the concerns of all stakeholders. / Redevelopment, Negotiation theory, Fisher-Ury theory, Ordinance / AC7794



은평구 파발제의 콘텐츠 다방면화 및 외부인 유입을 위한 홍보 방안 / Diversifying Content and Promoting External Engagement for the Pabalje Festival in Eunpyeong-gu / 이준상 · 서연우 · 하윤후 / This study examines strategies to diversify the content of the Pabalje Festival in Eunpyeonggu and enhance its appeal to external visitors. Despite its historical significance as a regional festival celebrating the Joseon Dynasty’s Pabal communication system, the festival has struggled with limited public awareness, insufficient promotion, and unengaging content. To address these challenges, the study draws on successful cases from other regional festivals and suggests innovative solutions, including interactive media art, digital engagement via the metaverse, and tailored programs for diverse audiences. Surveys and interviews with local stakeholders further support proposals for revitalizing the festival’s cultural and economic value. These findings aim to establish the Pabalje Festival as a sustainable cultural landmark while fostering stronger connections between the local community and its historical heritage. / Pabalje Festival, Cultural Revitalization, Eunpyeong-gu, Regional Marketing / AC1195



은평구의 대중교통 인프라 부족과 1 인 가구 증가에 따른 카풀 시스템 구축 / Establishing a Carpool System in Response to Insufficient Public Transportation Infrastructure and the Rise of Single-Person Households in Eunpyeong-gu / 공하민 · 김나연 · 이선 · 신채민 / The increasing prevalence of single-person households and insufficient public transportation infrastructure in Eunpyeong-gu have exacerbated commuting challenges. This has highlighted the need for innovative solutions to enhance urban mobility. This study aims to propose the development of a carpooling system tailored to the characteristics of the Eunpyeong-gu area to alleviate transportation issues. We analyzed demographic and transportation data of Eunpyeong-gu and reviewed successful case studies of carpool systems in other urban areas. Based on these insights, we conceptualized a carpool application framework, including key features such as route optimization and user verification mechanisms. The proposed carpool system offers potential benefits, including reduced commute times and traffic congestion. It also encourages community engagement and provides a cost-effective, environmentally friendly alternative to private vehicle use. Implementing a localized carpool system in Eunpyeong-gu could address current transportation challenges and contribute to sustainable urban mobility. / Eunpyeong-gu, Carpool system, Single-person households, Urban mobility / AC6129



은평구의 지형적 특성을 반영한 독감 확산 과정 모델링 / Modeling the Spread of Influenza Reflecting the Topographical Characteristics of Eunpyeong / 문서현 · 박효찬 · 정주원 · 홍민정 / This study analyzes influenza transmission in Eunpyeong-gu using a GIS-based SEIQR model reflecting its demographic and topographic characteristics. With a high elderly population and complex terrain, the district is vulnerable to outbreaks. The study identifies Region 4 as the most susceptible due to population density and interregional mobility. Through GIS analysis and simulations, critical transmission patterns and peak infection periods were identified. The results emphasize targeted interventions, such as prioritized vaccinations and mobility controls, highlighting the model's potential for localized epidemic management in urban settings. / GIS, SEIQR model, Influenza, Health Statistic, Public administration / AC1757



은평한옥마을 내 소방차의 효율적 배치 연구 - 페르마 포인트 및 프로그래밍적 구현을 중심으로 / Study on the Efficient Placement of Fire Trucks in Eun-pyeong Hanok Village - Focusing on the Fermat Point and Programmatic Implementation / 고유건 · 배성훈 · 서용준 · 송시현 / Eun-pyeong Hanok Village is a member-type Hanok dense area of Seoul, built in 2014, and Korean traditions have supplied power to the beautiful natural scenery of Bukhan Mountain and the tourism resources of Eun-pyeong-gu. However, Hanok speaks of the left and right conflicts of people who are shaking, and especially, Eun-pyeong Hanok Village is expected to be more severe in scale because it is the only place where ethnic minority concentration exists. Therefore, this study applies the concept of a Fermat point where the sum of the three distances from each of the three vertices of the triangle to the point is the smallest, and aims to establish the location of the pump truck and tank truck dispatch to suppress the fire in Eun-pyeong Hanok Village. The research was processed with a site recce to Hanok Village and an interview with Eun-pyeong Fire Station, an investigation of the location of indoor and underground greetings, satellite photo analysis, and programming algorithm using mathematical concepts. Finally, we were able to develop the program that sets the coordinate system under the Eun-pyeong Hanok Village exploration, and finding the Fermat point of the triangle that has the hydrant and two blocks as the vertex. This study is significant in that it helps to protect and explore the potential of Eun-pyeong-gu's tourism industry, as well as to preserve more traditional cultural tourism industries through traditional methods. / Fermat point, triangle, Eun-pyeong Hanok Village, pump truck / AC2626



자원회수시설 최적 입지 및 소각방식 결정 : 퍼지함수를 이용한 마포구 대체 후보지 평가 / Optimizing Incinerator Location and Incineration Method : Fuzzy Evaluation of Alternative Sites for Mapo-gu / 김윤지 · 김보민 · 김유정 · 하윤희 / The conflict over a new incinerator in Mapo-gu highlights the need for alternative locations. This study aims to find the optimal site using fuzzy functions, with results visualized through graphs. By comparing incineration methods, the study offers a balanced and sustainable model fulfilling both public and government needs. / Fuzzy theory, Fluidized bed pyrolysis, Stoker incinerator, Rotary Kiln, Grate incinerator / AC7704



전통 짜임을 활용한 효율적인 연탄 운반 수단의 연구 / Research into efficient transportation of kneaded coal using traditional joints / 이호영 · 주시윤 · 차이현 · 최서진 / This study aims to develop an efficient means of transporting kneaded coal by considering the topographical characteristics of Eunpyeong-gu, one of the lowest areas in Seoul, and the need of households using kneaded coal, given the high concentration of marginalized households in areas such as Susaek-dong and Nokbun-dong. In particular, we propose a durable and flexible design suitable for Eunpyeong-gu, which is surrounded by five mountains, including Bukhansan Mountain, on three sides and is rich in greenery, by applying hanok weaving and joint technology. By doing so, we hope to contribute to substantially improving the lives of vulnerable minorities and increasing the efficiency of outreach activities. In the process of building the transportation vehicle, we analyzed the characteristics of various textures through texture structure experiments, and built a model using a forklift truck and the principle of an infinite track as a science box. We found that the vehicle was able to move stably on slopes of up to 30 degrees, and could move flexibly on stairs and curved surfaces, confirming its usefulness in the mountainous Eunpyeong region. Load strength experiments, repetitive fatiuge experiments, and impact loading experiments were conducted to determine which of the traditional joints was the most suitable for transportation. The convergence of traditional and modern technology has contributed to solving a practical problem in the local community, and we hope that the kneaded coal transportation method developed by the team will be developed into a sustainable technology. / Transportation of kneaded coal, traditional joint, torque, continuous track, load strength experiment / AC0151



펜톤 산화법을 활용한 한강 물 정화에 관한 연구 / Study on the Application of Fenton Oxidation for Water Purification in the Han River / 신우진 · 박성원 · 송석윤 · 윤서형 / This study addresses Han River pollution, a regional issue. Water samples were collected, and COD was measured before and after purification. Fenton oxidation was chosen for its efficiency in small-scale experiments. Results highlight pollution levels and propose sustainable strategies for water quality improvement. / Han River pollution, COD, Fenton oxidation, purification / AC7310



퇴적현상으로 인한 밤섬의 육지화가 한강 홍수에 미치는 영향에 대한 수리적 고찰 / Hydraulic Analysis of Bamseom Terrestrialization and Its Impact on Flood Dynamics on Hangang River / 양성연 · 이윤하 / Based on Bamseom’s geological and ecological significance, this study analyzes the influence of Bamseom’s recent change in its area and terrestrialization on the flow of Hangang River and ultimately occurrence of flood. Terrestrialization and area increase require great attention, because they result from sedimentation processes, which would only worsen in our nearest future. This study integrates several numerical data sets such as the annual increase of Bamseom area, the water level of adjacent Hangang River, and digital elevation model (DEM) to create a river simulation model for Bamseom and the surrounding area. We operated HECRAS (U.S. Army Corps of Engineer’s River Analysis System) in order to visualize Hangang River, and thus simulating the river flow in the circumstance of flood. Our founding gained from multiple simulation suggests that the terrestrialization phenomenon itself is not an urgent issue that can instantly change the flow of Hangang river. However, when the intensity of terrestrialization increases, it can severely affect the flow of the river and thus promotes flood occurrence. Therefore, our study holds its significance by emphasizing the impact that Bamseom’s change has on the flow of the river and furthermore urges to pay more attention to Bamseom, not just as the ecological hub in city, but for the sake of neighbor’s safety. / Bamseom, terrestrialization, HEC-RAS, river flow simulation of flood / AC0016
